docs: add first documentation archetype. (#957)
gnolang/gno: docs/gnoweb.md

---
state: improvements-needed # The final PoC is working well, but it must evolve performance-wise.
---

# Gnoweb

gnoweb is an application that can call a special method on a [realm](./realm.md) that returns markdown as the output. This can be used to create any kind of web interface, like social networks, blog systems, forums, or standard status pages.

> The method that it calls is `Render(string)`string` where the input string is a path, and the output string is markdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method that it calls is `Render(string) string` where the input is a path (to discriminate different requests, and potentially handle them through a router), and the return value is markdown to be rendered.
```

I would also add something like:

```
It has read-only access also to the [Realm State](./realm-state.md), so it can serve as a useful bridge between web2 and content on web3.
```
